project/README.md, before:

# W215 Course Project Guidelines

**Quick links**:

- [List of projects, Fall 2020 term](https://github.com/uc-berkeley-w215/fall2020/blob/primary/project/list-of-projects.md)
- [List of projects, Summer 2020 term](https://github.com/uc-berkeley-w215/summer2020/blob/master/project/list-of-projects.md)
- [List of project ideas](./ideas.md)
- [Tips on helping others with their projects](./helping-others.md)
- [Collaborating with Qualtrics](/project/tools/qualtrics)
- [Tips on setting up a Qualtrics survey](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dCWqeEVaHSNwUDYGvA1_XT8BK_1JFZQUe2MjjIDPLbo/edit) (thanks to Jacky Ho)



You will design a research protocol to evaluate human behaviors or attitudes that impact security or privacy in computing systems, writing up the protocol as if it were an (incomplete) research paper and presentation. (Incomplete because you may not have time to run more than a pilot study.)

Pilot any components that can be piloted in the time available, and/or use peers from other project groups to identify ways to improve your protocol. Project groups will be either 2-3 people.

### Final paper sections

The final deliverable will be a research paper which should contain:

  - **Motivation**: An explanation for why the topic you chose is relevant and interesting in usable security and privacy, and what contribution it makes (or could make) to the research community.
  - **Research Question**: A concise statement of the question you want to answer, such as a behavior you would like to measure the prevalence of or a hypothesis that one approach to a problem is more effective than another.
  - **Related Work**: A description of research that inspired yours or that your results/methodology build upon.  This should be similar to the related work sections in the papers you have read in the course.  It should go through relevant papers, summarize them, and describe how they relate to your research project.
  - **Methodology**: A detailed overview of the research method, the prepared study materials, and recruiting plan.
  - **Results**: A description of the pilot sessions, the resulting changes that were made to the research materials, and results from follow-on studies, if any.  Results should include tables, graphs, and statistical test results, as appropriate.
  - **Discussion**: Your interpretation of the results and any implications of them.
  - **Limitations and Future Work**: Any improvements you would make to these studies or a future study.
  - **Conclusion**: A summary of the main takeaways of the research.
  - **Acknowledgements**: Details of the help your team has received from those outside your project group as well as anyone else.
  - **Appendices**: Copies of your study materials, such as consent forms, survey forms, interview scripts, etc.

The paper should be similar in quality to the research papers that we read in class, though the number of participants and study iterations might not be equivalent.

Be proactive about talking with the instructor before the project proposal is due in case you have chosen a topic that is out of scope or not well-scoped.

### Budget and recruiting

We have a budget of $100/student for running studies, so you can pay participants via such services as
 - [Prolific](https://www.prolific.co/) (strongly recommended by Professor Egelman), 
 - [Qualtrics](https://berkeley.ca1.qualtrics.com/)
     > Qualtrics is free for Berkeley students building surveys, but has a $500 minimum for recruiting participants.  Unless you have a large group and want to do everything in Qualtrics, we suggest using Qualtrics for the survey component of your study and recruiting participants in Prolific or Mechanical Turk.
 - [Amazon’s Mechanical Turk](https://www.mturk.com/)
     > Note that we've received reports that MTurk's data quality has gone significantly down due to infiltration by bots, and one team in the fall term found the great majority of participants failed to do the task that was required.

For building surveys, make sure to read the instructions for using Berkeley's site license for [Qualtrics](/project/tools/qualtrics) to get all their advanced features.


### Ethics

You may use the class’s running list of [<span class="underline">project ideas</span>](./ideas.md).

You will need to familiarize yourself with the [University guidelines](https://cphs.berkeley.edu/review.html) on whether you project will require ethical review. Course projects...

> "generally do not constitute research because their purpose is to provide training in research as part of the overall educational mission of a program and are not designed to contribute to new knowledge. However, if ... the instructor or student wishes to conduct further investigation and analyses in order to contribute to scholarly knowledge ... it meets the above definition of research and requires CPHS/OPHS review."

We interpret that to mean that if your project is going well and you expect to have a result worth publishing, you will want to add an ethics review.

### Schedule

**You will want to get started early**, seek feedback early, pilot early, and leave time for many revisions of your study materials. In the words of a former student in this course after submitting a successful
project:

> *This is tough. Every time I take another pass at this I see more things I want to change. Are the studies you work on always this iterative? How do you know when you're actually ready to deploy?*

In fact, most studies designed by researchers with decades of experience will go through more iterations than you have time for during this term, often with over a dozen iterations of test materials and two to four pilot studies. One of the things you will be learning this term is that the human-subjects studies you read are the results of lots of work you are unlikely to read about in the paper, and far more work than most people understand.

### Week 6, before the live session

In the breakout group projects that we started during Week 3 and presented in Week 4, I hope you all learned that:

1. Understanding the specifics of a problem is an essential first step and worth your time. (Much confusion resulted when team members didn’t see the problem the same way.)

2. Different assumptions of costs and benefits can lead to different research designs.

Therefore, when you are pitching projects ideas, put 80% of your effort into writing a crisp and clear definition of the problem you want to investigate or hypothesis you wish to test, and then 20% of effort into saying which research method (survey, lab study, field study, etc.) would best apply to the problem.  We recommend starting with this [project proposal structure](/project/proposals/proposal-structure-with-examples.md) to make it easier to evaluate and compare projects.

To motivate your research, please explain the possible impact of your research on your organization or on the broader world. What decisions might be better informed by the results of your study? For example:

  - Is there a technology that you or others might choose to adopt or avoid based on the results of a study?
  - Are you identifying pain points or challenges that will help you or your organization determine which problems still need to be addressed in a design?
  - Will you be identifying users concerns so that you can better quantify them with a follow-up study so that they can be address down the road?
  - Are there benefits to the study that cannot be expressed as decisions that might be changed or resources that might be allocated differently based on the possible outcomes?

**Assignment 6**: Please submit at least two paragraphs about your project idea before the sync session.  Share the idea as a Google doc, link to it in the course slack channel at least an hour before the sync session, and be prepared to answer questions about what you wrote during the session.  Also submit it to the slot "*Assignment 6*" in ISVC.

You are not required to have a group at this phase of the project.  If you happen to have a group, please choose one member to submit the proposal on behalf of the group.

### Week 7, before the live session

Revise your project idea by integrating any feedback you've received.

### Week 8, before the live session

Submit a **one-page project proposal** to the slot "*Group Project Proposal*" in ISVC.  You can start with the [project proposal structure](/project/proposals/proposal-structure-with-examples.md) and fill in related work, add additional questions, and provide more details about your study.  You should try to fill in as much as you can of the _Motivation_, _Research Question_, _Related Work_, and _Methodology_ sections of the [final paper](#final-paper-sections).  Please choose one member to submit the proposal on behalf of the group.

### Week 9, before the live session

Revise your proposal to include the following:

1. Research materials needed to execute the study:
	- study/analysis plan
	- research protocols
	- any material required during the research activities (surveys, recruiting ads, etc.)
2. Designs, mockups, and prototypes at the appropriate level of fidelity.

Share this revised proposal in the Slack channel.

Some aspects of your protocol you might want to consider:
- Where will you advertise your survey/interview protocol? What text will you use to advertise it? This text is important because it should be brief, neutral, but should spark at some interest in your study.
- What instructions will you present to your subjects? Same recommendations as above: brief, neutral and to the point. Instructions must be clear above anything else. Have them read by someone not in your group to make sure of that.
- How long will it take a subject to take your survey/interview? The question is important because that defines how much you should pay each subject, as a proportion of the current minimal wage per hour (in California, that's about $16 per hour). One question that usually emerges about this is whether you can pay more (if you have the money, of course). The answer is yes; but you should beware of paying too much because that could be coercive.
- Ethical aspects of your study design.  IRB applications often require that you do the following:
  - Describe the reasonably foreseeable risks of harm, discomforts, and hazards to the subjects and others of the research procedures. For each harm, discomfort, or hazard:
    - Describe the magnitude, probability, duration, and/or reversibility of the harm, discomfort, or hazard, AND
    - Describe how the risks will be reduced or managed
  - Consider possible physical, psychological, social, legal, and economic harms, including possible negative effects on financial standing, employability, insurability, educational advancement or reputation.


### Week 11, before the live session

At this point you should have run an initial pilot with at least a few convenience participants (friends or coworkers) if not a larger pilot and will want to share how this went.

### Week 14, before the live session

 1. Prepare a presentation about your project for the class (see below).

 2. Prepare a content-complete draft of your paper with all the required sections (see the top of this document).

 3. Email your paper draft and slides to the instructors.  The subject line of the email should start with "W215 Project Rough Draft".

### Week 14, during the live session

Each group will share their project with the class. Please cover at least the following:

   * Which topic did you choose, why did you choose it, and what are the research questions?
   * Which research method did you choose, and why?
   * What material did you prepare for the study?
   * What were the results of the pilot sessions and how did the experience influence the research materials for the final iteration?
   * What would be your recruiting plan and target demographics if you were to continue the research?
   * What other improvements would you make to the study?

### Three days after Week 14 live session

Submit the final draft of your paper to the slot "*Final Project*" in ISVC and also email it to the instructors.  The subject line of the email should start with "W215 Project Final Draft".  Please choose one member to submit the proposal on behalf of the group.

The final draft should include any changes made following feedback from the live session.  Include a copy of your study materials (survey text, interview script, etc.) in an appendix of the paper or as an email attachment.

Complete the project team assessment survey.

Commit message:

Change ISVC to Digital Campus

project/README.md, after:

# W215 Course Project Guidelines

**Quick links**:

- [List of projects, Fall 2020 term](https://github.com/uc-berkeley-w215/fall2020/blob/primary/project/list-of-projects.md)
- [List of projects, Summer 2020 term](https://github.com/uc-berkeley-w215/summer2020/blob/master/project/list-of-projects.md)
- [List of project ideas](./ideas.md)
- [Tips on helping others with their projects](./helping-others.md)
- [Collaborating with Qualtrics](/project/tools/qualtrics)
- [Tips on setting up a Qualtrics survey](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dCWqeEVaHSNwUDYGvA1_XT8BK_1JFZQUe2MjjIDPLbo/edit) (thanks to Jacky Ho)



You will design a research protocol to evaluate human behaviors or attitudes that impact security or privacy in computing systems, writing up the protocol as if it were an (incomplete) research paper and presentation. (Incomplete because you may not have time to run more than a pilot study.)

Pilot any components that can be piloted in the time available, and/or use peers from other project groups to identify ways to improve your protocol. Project groups will be either 2-3 people.

### Final paper sections

The final deliverable will be a research paper which should contain:

  - **Motivation**: An explanation for why the topic you chose is relevant and interesting in usable security and privacy, and what contribution it makes (or could make) to the research community.
  - **Research Question**: A concise statement of the question you want to answer, such as a behavior you would like to measure the prevalence of or a hypothesis that one approach to a problem is more effective than another.
  - **Related Work**: A description of research that inspired yours or that your results/methodology build upon.  This should be similar to the related work sections in the papers you have read in the course.  It should go through relevant papers, summarize them, and describe how they relate to your research project.
  - **Methodology**: A detailed overview of the research method, the prepared study materials, and recruiting plan.
  - **Results**: A description of the pilot sessions, the resulting changes that were made to the research materials, and results from follow-on studies, if any.  Results should include tables, graphs, and statistical test results, as appropriate.
  - **Discussion**: Your interpretation of the results and any implications of them.
  - **Limitations and Future Work**: Any improvements you would make to these studies or a future study.
  - **Conclusion**: A summary of the main takeaways of the research.
  - **Acknowledgements**: Details of the help your team has received from those outside your project group as well as anyone else.
  - **Appendices**: Copies of your study materials, such as consent forms, survey forms, interview scripts, etc.

The paper should be similar in quality to the research papers that we read in class, though the number of participants and study iterations might not be equivalent.

Be proactive about talking with the instructor before the project proposal is due in case you have chosen a topic that is out of scope or not well-scoped.

### Budget and recruiting

We have a budget of $100/student for running studies, so you can pay participants via such services as
 - [Prolific](https://www.prolific.co/) (strongly recommended by Professor Egelman), 
 - [Qualtrics](https://berkeley.ca1.qualtrics.com/)
     > Qualtrics is free for Berkeley students building surveys, but has a $500 minimum for recruiting participants.  Unless you have a large group and want to do everything in Qualtrics, we suggest using Qualtrics for the survey component of your study and recruiting participants in Prolific or Mechanical Turk.
 - [Amazon’s Mechanical Turk](https://www.mturk.com/)
     > Note that we've received reports that MTurk's data quality has gone significantly down due to infiltration by bots, and one team in the fall term found the great majority of participants failed to do the task that was required.

For building surveys, make sure to read the instructions for using Berkeley's site license for [Qualtrics](/project/tools/qualtrics) to get all their advanced features.


### Ethics

You may use the class’s running list of [<span class="underline">project ideas</span>](./ideas.md).

You will need to familiarize yourself with the [University guidelines](https://cphs.berkeley.edu/review.html) on whether you project will require ethical review. Course projects...

> "generally do not constitute research because their purpose is to provide training in research as part of the overall educational mission of a program and are not designed to contribute to new knowledge. However, if ... the instructor or student wishes to conduct further investigation and analyses in order to contribute to scholarly knowledge ... it meets the above definition of research and requires CPHS/OPHS review."

We interpret that to mean that if your project is going well and you expect to have a result worth publishing, you will want to add an ethics review.

### Schedule

**You will want to get started early**, seek feedback early, pilot early, and leave time for many revisions of your study materials. In the words of a former student in this course after submitting a successful
project:

> *This is tough. Every time I take another pass at this I see more things I want to change. Are the studies you work on always this iterative? How do you know when you're actually ready to deploy?*

In fact, most studies designed by researchers with decades of experience will go through more iterations than you have time for during this term, often with over a dozen iterations of test materials and two to four pilot studies. One of the things you will be learning this term is that the human-subjects studies you read are the results of lots of work you are unlikely to read about in the paper, and far more work than most people understand.

### Week 6, before the live session

In the breakout group projects that we started during Week 3 and presented in Week 4, I hope you all learned that:

1. Understanding the specifics of a problem is an essential first step and worth your time. (Much confusion resulted when team members didn’t see the problem the same way.)

2. Different assumptions of costs and benefits can lead to different research designs.

Therefore, when you are pitching projects ideas, put 80% of your effort into writing a crisp and clear definition of the problem you want to investigate or hypothesis you wish to test, and then 20% of effort into saying which research method (survey, lab study, field study, etc.) would best apply to the problem.  We recommend starting with this [project proposal structure](/project/proposals/proposal-structure-with-examples.md) to make it easier to evaluate and compare projects.

To motivate your research, please explain the possible impact of your research on your organization or on the broader world. What decisions might be better informed by the results of your study? For example:

  - Is there a technology that you or others might choose to adopt or avoid based on the results of a study?
  - Are you identifying pain points or challenges that will help you or your organization determine which problems still need to be addressed in a design?
  - Will you be identifying users concerns so that you can better quantify them with a follow-up study so that they can be address down the road?
  - Are there benefits to the study that cannot be expressed as decisions that might be changed or resources that might be allocated differently based on the possible outcomes?

**Assignment 6**: Please submit at least two paragraphs about your project idea before the sync session.  Share the idea as a Google doc, link to it in the course slack channel at least an hour before the sync session, and be prepared to answer questions about what you wrote during the session.  Also submit it to the slot "*Assignment 6*" in the Digital Campus.

You are not required to have a group at this phase of the project.  If you happen to have a group, please choose one member to submit the proposal on behalf of the group.

### Week 7, before the live session

Revise your project idea by integrating any feedback you've received.

### Week 8, before the live session

Submit a **one-page project proposal** to the slot "*Group Project Proposal*" in the Digital Campus.  You can start with the [project proposal structure](/project/proposals/proposal-structure-with-examples.md) and fill in related work, add additional questions, and provide more details about your study.  You should try to fill in as much as you can of the _Motivation_, _Research Question_, _Related Work_, and _Methodology_ sections of the [final paper](#final-paper-sections).  Please choose one member to submit the proposal on behalf of the group.

### Week 9, before the live session

Revise your proposal to include the following:

1. Research materials needed to execute the study:
	- study/analysis plan
	- research protocols
	- any material required during the research activities (surveys, recruiting ads, etc.)
2. Designs, mockups, and prototypes at the appropriate level of fidelity.

Share this revised proposal in the Slack channel.

Some aspects of your protocol you might want to consider:
- Where will you advertise your survey/interview protocol? What text will you use to advertise it? This text is important because it should be brief, neutral, but should spark at some interest in your study.
- What instructions will you present to your subjects? Same recommendations as above: brief, neutral and to the point. Instructions must be clear above anything else. Have them read by someone not in your group to make sure of that.
- How long will it take a subject to take your survey/interview? The question is important because that defines how much you should pay each subject, as a proportion of the current minimal wage per hour (in California, that's about $16 per hour). One question that usually emerges about this is whether you can pay more (if you have the money, of course). The answer is yes; but you should beware of paying too much because that could be coercive.
- Ethical aspects of your study design.  IRB applications often require that you do the following:
  - Describe the reasonably foreseeable risks of harm, discomforts, and hazards to the subjects and others of the research procedures. For each harm, discomfort, or hazard:
    - Describe the magnitude, probability, duration, and/or reversibility of the harm, discomfort, or hazard, AND
    - Describe how the risks will be reduced or managed
  - Consider possible physical, psychological, social, legal, and economic harms, including possible negative effects on financial standing, employability, insurability, educational advancement or reputation.


### Week 11, before the live session

At this point you should have run an initial pilot with at least a few convenience participants (friends or coworkers) if not a larger pilot and will want to share how this went.

### Week 14, before the live session

 1. Prepare a presentation about your project for the class (see below).

 2. Prepare a content-complete draft of your paper with all the required sections (see the top of this document).

 3. Email your paper draft and slides to the instructors.  The subject line of the email should start with "W215 Project Rough Draft".

### Week 14, during the live session

Each group will share their project with the class. Please cover at least the following:

   * Which topic did you choose, why did you choose it, and what are the research questions?
   * Which research method did you choose, and why?
   * What material did you prepare for the study?
   * What were the results of the pilot sessions and how did the experience influence the research materials for the final iteration?
   * What would be your recruiting plan and target demographics if you were to continue the research?
   * What other improvements would you make to the study?

### Three days after Week 14 live session

Submit the final draft of your paper to the slot "*Final Project*" in the Digital Campus and also email it to the instructors.  The subject line of the email should start with "W215 Project Final Draft".  Please choose one member to submit the proposal on behalf of the group.

The final draft should include any changes made following feedback from the live session.  Include a copy of your study materials (survey text, interview script, etc.) in an appendix of the paper or as an email attachment.

Complete the project team assessment survey.
